---
layout: post
title: Grant Process Post Two
---

One of the trickiest aspects associated with working on an academic project is often encountered early on. Namely, topic selection. While learning about the digital humanities, I have been given glimpses into different areas I would likely have otherwise never had the opportunity to learn about. This was eye-opening, as one would hope and maybe expect from collegiate studies, but the sheer variety of topics for digital humanities projects I had seen and been exposed to was staggering. While doing the readings for the course and listening to others' progress, questions remained in my mind about what topics, covered in which ways, could make a good candidate for a grant proposal project. Eventually, the appeal of language analysis and processing appealed to me the most, and made sense for me to cover. After finding an official and reasonably complete database containing speeches given by Academy Award winners in Best Screenplay categories, I got the go-ahead from my professor, and got to work. All well and good, but what would it look like? How would things be organized, how would information be displayed?

Since my last blog post on this topic, I've been needing to have more detail on implementation of the project. I knew it would take the form of a website, and I had some ideas about what would be displayed, and how. Specifically, one of the things that might give the site appeal would be to use timelinejs. This is a free, open-source tool that makes creation of a timeline for use in a professional website easy, even for those who don't know programming. This presents an interesting visualisation for the project. Different years, able to demontrated visually, to give a comprehensive, macro vision of the awards in general. Seeing a trend of what 'type' of movie gets awarded, sure, and some statistics like diversity among recipients would likely be visually appealing and serve to spark discussion. Part of my vision involves seeing, from its inception to today, how the Academy Awards category for this award has changed, and how the words the screenwriters have used to describe how they feel have changed as well. I see a timeline as giving a lot of character and direction to the project.

Continually as I look through the speeches, finding collocated, or habitually paired terms from speeches has been the major draw. I've begun to find interesting things almost immediately simply using Voyant, a free web-based analysis for texts. For example, in his acceptance speech for Get Out, Jordan Peele frequently uses the word 'people', and this word is collocated with the word 'hear'. Without giving anything away, the film for which the award was presented is very much about society, and the sense of hearing playing a critical role in the development of the film's plot. Other collocations, such as 'thought' and 'impossible', are similar, in that they describe the production of the film, as well as having some relationship with the story.

In his acceptance speech for The King's Speech, screenwriter David Seidler begins with, "The writer's speech, this is terrifying." The idea of someone receiving an honor for their command of language being terrified to give a brief speech, and for a film about a man terrified to give a speech is truly ironic. It's discoveries like this that have kept me engaged with the project, and kept me going back to the database for more intersting situations like this. Browsing the database of acceptance speech transcripts has been an interesting and telling experience each time I visit to further my research.
